- [Instructor] In a microservices architecture,
especially in a containerized infrastructure,
tracing service calls through a web service stack
is critical to being able to maintain operational integrity
of a system as call volume increases.
Let's take a look at tracing in Quarkus.
Now, for this one, we need to actually start Jaeger
and Jaeger is a system that handles tracing.
It's an open source tool.
And once again, I have provided you a script for this
in the bin directory of the exercise files.
So we are going to start_jaeger.
Now, if you don't have Docker and you don't want to run it,
of course, you can run Jaeger locally
but I provided the Docker script for a Linux system
that you can use if you're able to.
So now let's jump into the IDE
and we're going to once again go to the room-service
and then the pom file
and we are going to add another dependency
from smallrye-opentracing.
And this one comes from io.quarkus.
We'll allow Maven to do its thing.
And while it's running,
I'm going to open up src, main, resources,
application.properties.
And we need to provide a few values here.
So quarkus.jaeger.service-name
and the service-name that we are going to use is roomservice.
And quarkus.jaeger.sampler-type
and we're going to do a constant sampler
and the sampler-param that we're going to use is one.
So we want it to constantly run.
Now, the last thing that we need to do
is we're going to put this into our console messages.
And you'll see what this looks like.
So bear with me a minute here
as we we type all of this out.
So %d{HH:nn:ss| %-5p traceId
equals %X{traceId,
parentId equals %X{parentId
and this parentId is how you get into nested calls.
But we're not going to deal with that in this example.
The next element is the spanId
equals %X{spanId
and again, that's used for distributed calls.
Comma sampled equals %X
{sampled space bracket
%c{2.
Close all that out.
Space parentheses %t
space %s%e
and %n.
And this is pretty common and this comes straight
from the guide.
This is a standard output that comes from the guide
that you can use.
So now we need to actually go add a log message
so we can see it.
So we're going to go into the RoomResource.
And we are going to add a Logger
of type private final static
.getLogger RoomResource.class.
And I'm simply going to put a LOG.info message.
So that's all there is to it.
Ideally would add this to every method
and all of our call stack but that's okay.
For right now, this serves its purpose.
We will run our room-service.
Okay, the first thing I want you to notice
is now our log messages have traceId, parentId,
spanId included in them.
So let's make a couple web service calls.
We'll simply go to our browser.
Go to localhost:8080/rooms
and let's hit that a couple times.
Now, we'll jump back to our console
and you'll see that we've gotten traceIds and spanIds.
Obviously we don't have a parentId
because we're calling this as the first service.
If we had a chain,
we would see those.
But what's really cool about this
is we're running Jaeger,
so let's jump back to our web browser.
And let's go to localhost:16686
and this is the Jaeger dashboard.
So we can open up our service
and you'll see that the roomservice is listed.
And we can find all of the traces.
And I made three calls,
so we add three traces.
And as we open them up,
you'll see that we can get details
of the individual calls
and this is where Jaeger really gets powerful
for debugging an operational system
where you need to see the call stack
and how all of your traces relate to each other.